# Contributor's meetup
## June 22, 2023
* Attendees [name, affiliation]
    * David Espejo [Union.ai]
    * Recogni.com [Recogni.com]
    * Bernhard Stadlbauer [Pachama.com]
    * Niels Bantilan [Union.ai]
    * Tim Sheiner [Union.ai]
    * Arthur Book [RecoverX]
* Welcome new members
* Introduce [new RFCs](https://github.com/orgs/flyteorg/projects/12/views/1)
* Working Groups updates
    * Config overrides
        * Working group meeting to sync on progress with Byron
        * We will need to update the protobuf messages in flyteidl to be `oneof`. Otherwise we cannot distinguish between defaults and user-set overrides
        * Fabio needs to review Bernhard's PR into his but hasn't happened yet
* New ideas in [the incubator](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/discussions/categories/rfc-incubator)
    * [Unify retry behaviour](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/discussions/3793)
* Open mic/questions [add your name]
    * Yee - Tiny URLs, Artifact service, multi-variate maps
        * Artifact IDL: https://github.com/flyteorg/flyteidl/pull/408
        * Artifact Flytekit: https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit/pull/1655/files
        * Artifact Admin https://github.com/flyteorg/flyteadmin/pull/572/files
        * Older flyte URL PRs ([first](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyteadmin/pull/546), [second](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyteadmin/pull/565))
        * Now closed/rejected multi-variate [map PR](https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit/pull/1700)
        * General dataclass PR that should be streamlined with Pydantic effort: https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit/pull/1679/
    * Feedback on support for generalized container types [PR](https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit/pull/1700) - Yee
    * SKIP: Status of `help wanted` and `good first issue` work [David]
    * [Type support for Pydantic](https://github.com/flyteorg/flytekit/pull/1660)
        * Arthur and Fabio are working on this
        * Will need review from someone from Union after the next iteration
    * Niels - talk about GPU machine selection (RFC TBD)
        * https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/discussions/3796

## AI-generated meeting notes

### Working group updates

* The group discussed a problem with the behavior of preemption in different plugins, particularly in Kubeflow jobs. Fabio and Benis proposed several solutions, including making the behavior user-configurable, but there were concerns about implementation and compatibility with future plugins.
4:53
The group discussed a proposal for retrying tasks upon system failure, with Fabio explaining the benefits of using Interruptible Tasks for Workflows with robust checkpointing. Niels suggested improving transparency around task retries. Yee brought up the topic of tiny URLs, which may be better suited for the incubator or an RFC

### Yee's intervention

Yee discussed the implementation of a URL pattern that allows for quick access to outputs in flyteadmin and proposed the creation of a more general artifact service that would allow for local use, input to new workflows, and control over creation and querying of artifacts. A comparison between this and the existing data catalog was planned and a stub for the service was to be created for further iteration.
21:45
Yee discussed the implementation of a more general data class transformer in flytekit, but there were concerns about the limitations of the current system and the potential issues with entering JSON in the UI. The group also discussed the lineage system and the need for a more generalized approach to tracking artifacts.
32:09
Fabio, Yee, and Niels discussed the challenges of serializing and deserializing data classes in machine learning models, including issues with JSON serialization and the need for a JSON schema. They also explored potential solutions, such as using dictionaries as a transport with a metadata field and offloading complex data types as artifacts.
42:39
Yee suggested finding a better way to represent JSON system to avoid affecting reliability. David agreed and said they would have to discuss this further

### Type support for Pydantic

The group discussed progress on a plugin for web-based models and the need for additional review. They also talked about the possibility of JSON path indexing and the upcoming talk on selecting GPU types.